Q.1  What is pass in Python?

ans :- Pass means , no-operation Python statements , or in other words it is place holder in compound statement , where there should be a blank left and nothing has to be written there


Q.2  What Does The Continue Do In Python? 
ans:-  The continue is a jump statement in Python which moves the control to execute the next iteration in a loop leaving all the remaining instructions in the block unexecuted.
 
The continue statement is applicable for both the “while” and “for” loops.


Q.3  When Should You Use The “Break” In Python? 

Ans :-  Python provides a break statement to exit from a loop. Whenever the break hits in the code, the control of the program immediately exits from the body of the loop.
 
The break statement in a nested loop causes the control to exit from the inner iterative block.


Q.4  What Is The Difference Between Pass And Continue In Python? 

Ans :- The continue statement makes the loop to resume from the next iteration.
 
On the contrary, the pass statement instructs to do nothing, and the remainder of the code executes as usual.

Q.5  What Is A String In Python?

Ans:- A string in Python is a sequence of alpha-numeric characters. They are immutable objects. 
      It means that they don’t allow modification once they get assigned a value. 
	  Python provides several methods, such as join(), replace(), or split() to alter strings. 
	  But none of these change the original object.
	  
	  
Q.6  What is different between List and Tuple?

Ans:- Lists and Tuples store one or more objects or values in a specific order. 
    The objects stored in a list or tuple can be of any type including the nothing type defined by the None Keyword.

    The main difference between lists and a tuples is the fact that lists are mutable whereas tuples are immutable.

     Syntax Differences
    Lists are surrounded by square brackets [] and Tuples are surrounded by parenthesis ().

     a= [1,2,3,4]
     b= (1,2,3,4)

    Mutable List vs Immutable Tuples
    List has mutable nature i.e., we can be changed or modified after its creation according to needs whereas tuple has immutable nature
    i.e., tuple can’t be changed or modified after its creation.
 
 
Q.7  What is dictionary in Python?

Ans :-   Python dictionary is an unordered collection of items. While other compound data types have only value as an element, a dictionary has a key: value pair.

 
     Dictionaries are optimized to retrieve values when the key is known.

    How to create a dictionary?
    Creating a dictionary is as simple as placing items inside curly braces {} separated by comma.
 
    An item has a key and the corresponding value expressed as a pair, key: value.
Q.8  What are the built-in type does python provides?

Ans:-  There are mutable and Immutable types of Pythons built in types
    Mutable built-in types
    1.List
    2.Sets
    3.Dictionaries
    Immutable built-in types
    1.Strings
    2.Tuples
    3.Numbers
	
Q.8  What Is A Tuple In Python?
Ans:- A tuple is a collection type data structure in Python which is immutable.
    They are similar to sequences, just like the lists. However, There are some differences between a tuple and list; the former doesn’t allow modifications whereas the list does.
    Also, the tuples use parentheses for enclosing, but the lists have square brackets in their syntax.
	
Q.9 What are types of Operator are used in Python? 

Ans:- Arithmetic Operators
    Comparison Operators
    Python Assignment Operators
    Logical Operators or Bitwise Operators
    Membership Operators
    Identity Operators

Q.10  What Is A String In Python?
Ans:- A string in Python is a sequence of alpha-numeric characters.
    They are immutable objects. It means that they don’t allow modification once they get assigned a value.
    Python provides several methods, such as join(), replace(), or split() to alter strings. 
    But none of these change the original object.
	
	
Q.11  How can you randomize the items of a list in place in Python?

Ans:- randamise of list 

Q.12  What Is The Syntax For List Comprehension In Python? 

Ans:- The signature for the list comprehension is as follows:
 
[ expression(var) for var in iterable ]

Q.13  What is lambda in Python?
Ans :- anonymous function means that a function is without a name. As we already know that def keyword is used to define the normal functions and the lambda keyword is used to create anonymous functions.

     lambda arguments: expression
Q.14  Mention what are the rules for local and global variables in Python?
Ans:- Local variables: If a variable is assigned a new value anywhere within the function's body, 
    it's assumed to be local.

 
     Global variables: Those variables that are only referenced inside a function are implicitly global.

Q.15  Mention the use of the split function in Python?

Ans:- The use of the split function in Python is that it breaks a string into shorter strings using the defined separator. 
     It gives a list of all words present in the string.
	 
Q.16  What Is A Function In Python Programming?
Ans:-   A function is an object which represents a block of code and is a reusable entity. It brings modularity to a program and a higher degree of code reusability.

 
     Python has given us many built-in functions such as print() and provides the ability to create user-defined functions.


Q.17 What is *args and **kwargs?
Ans:- *args is used when the programmer is not sure about how many arguments are going to be passed to a function, or if the programmer is expecting a list or a tuple as argument to the function.
 
    **kwargs is used when a dictionary (keyword arguments) is expected as an argument to the function.
	
	
Q.18  What Are Errors And Exceptions In Python Programs?

Ans:-  Errors are coding issues in a program which may cause it to exit abnormally.
 
    On the contrary, exceptions happen due to 
	the occurrence of an external event which interrupts the normal flow of the program.
	
Q.19  What is Index Out Of Range Error?
Ans:-  When the value passed to the index operator is greater than the actual size of the tuple or list, Index Out of Range error is thrown by Python.

 
	>>> a = [1,2,3,4]
	>>> a[3]
 
		4
 
	>>> a[4]
 
	Traceback (most recent call last):
 
	File "", line 1, in
 
		a[4]
 
	IndexError: list index out of range
 
	>>> b = (1,2,3,4)
 
	>>> b[4]
 
	Traceback (most recent call last):
 
	File "", line 1, in
 
		b[4]
 
	IndexError: tuple index out of range

Q.20  Name some standard Python errors you know?

Ans:- TypeError: Occurs when the expected type doesn’t match with the given type of a variable.
 
	ValueError: When an expected value is not given- if you are expecting 4 elements in a list and you gave 2.
 
	NameError: When trying to access a variable or a function that is not defined.
 
	IOError: When trying to access a file that does not exist. 
 
	IndexError: Accessing an invalid index of a sequence will throw an IndexError.
 
	KeyError: When an invalid key is used to access a value in the dictionary.
 
	We can use dir(__builtin__) will list all the errors in Python.
